Build and deploy AI agents with MCP and Azure Functions
1 Hr 1 Min Remaining
10 Deploy the Application Code to Azure
You've implemented the code and verified it works locally against your provisioned cloud resources. Now, deploy the application code to the Azure Function App created by azd provision.

Go back to the Terminal and stop the local Functions host if it's still running (Ctrl+C in the func start terminal - wait a few seconds).

Ensure your terminal is in the root snippy directory (the one containing azure.yaml).

powershell
cd $HOME\snippy # Or C:\Users\LabUser\snippy
Run the AZD deploy command:

azd deploy

This may take a couple minutes to deploy.

This command performs the following:

Reads the azure.yaml file to determine which service code to deploy (configured to deploy the src directory to the Function App).
Packages your application code.
Deploys the code to the Azure Function App provisioned earlier.
Configures the application settings in the deployed Function App based on your .azure/snippy-mcp-lab-53226965/.env file, ensuring it can connect to OpenAI, Cosmos DB, etc., in the cloud.
Wait for the deployment to complete successfully. AZD will output the endpoints for your deployed application, including the Function App's base URL (e.g., https://func-api-…azurewebsites.net). Make a note of this URL.

11 Connect VS Code / Copilot to the Cloud MCP Endpoint
Finally, configure VS Code and Copilot Chat to use the tools running on your deployed Azure Function App.

Authenticate with Azure using Device Code:

Before you can retrieve the system key, you must authenticate using the Azure CLI (az):

az login --use-device-code

This command will output a URL and a device code. Copy the code, Ctrl+Click the URL to open it, then paste the code when prompted to complete authentication.

Get the MCP System Key:

The cloud MCP SSE endpoint (/runtime/webhooks/mcp/sse) is protected by a system key. You'll need this key to authenticate calls. Once logged in, run the following commands in your VS Code terminal to retrieve the system key:

powershell
$appName = azd env get-value AZURE_FUNCTION_NAME
az functionapp keys list -n $appName --query "systemKeys.mcp_extension" -g rg-snippymcplab --output tsv
The output will be a long string - copy this value. This is your required for calling the MCP SSE endpoint.

Add Cloud Endpoint to .vscode/mcp.json: After retrieving your Function App name and MCP system key, you can now configure the cloud endpoint in .vscode/mcp.json.

Select Start above to remote-snippy in mcp.json - this will prompt you to enter:

The Function App name
The MCP system key
You don't need to manually replace any values in the JSON - just copy the following values from your Terminal:

powershell
  # Print the Function App name
  $appName
Use the $appName value for the functionapp-name input, and paste the system key you retrieved earlier using:

powershell
 az functionapp keys list -n $appName --query "systemKeys.mcp_extension" -g rg-snippymcplab --output tsv
This setup allows the cloud-hosted MCP to receive and stream events securily.

16-remote-snippy.png

Switch Copilot to Cloud Server:

Open Copilot Chat (Ctrl + Alt + I).
Ensure Agent mode is selected.
Verify the tools are loaded correctly.
Test Cloud hosted Tools: Repeat the tests from step 9.2, but this time with the remote-snippy server:

Select some code.

Ask Copilot: save the selected snippet as my-cloud-mcp-test

If you see errors on local-snippy, open .vscode/mcp.json, delete the block of text for local-snippy, then try again.

74sc3vu8.jpg

Confirm the tool usage.

Ask Copilot: get the snippet named my-cloud-mcp-test

Try other tools like deep_wiki as we did in section 9.2.

Verify that the tools work correctly by interacting with your deployed Azure Function App.